README.md, before:

# IndexAgent

**IndexAgent** is a Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) stack for self-hosted, large-scale code search and indexing. Designed for privacy, extensibility, and developer autonomy, IndexAgent empowers organizations and individuals to run their own code search infrastructure—**no vendor lock-in, no cloud dependencies**. IndexAgent can integrate with Apache Airflow for orchestrating maintenance workflows but does not include any DAG definitions within this repository.

---

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Further Documentation](#further-documentation)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction

IndexAgent uniquely integrates [Sourcebot](https://github.com/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot) for code discovery and syncing, [Zoekt](https://github.com/sourcegraph/zoekt) for high-performance indexing and search, and the [Claude Code CLI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@anthropic-ai/claude-cli) for automated maintenance tasks. As a self-hosted FOSS platform, it provides a privacy-focused, extensible code infrastructure—empowering full autonomy without vendor lock-in.

Routine maintenance workflows (TODO cleanup, documentation generation, coverage loops) are orchestrated via [Apache Airflow 3.0](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/index.html) DAGs in the companion [airflow-hub](https://github.com/mprestonsparks/airflow-hub) repository. Sourcebot ensures code is current, Zoekt powers sub-100 ms search across mounted repositories, and the Claude Code CLI applies intelligent patches—together realizing an autonomous, scalable maintenance ecosystem.

### Airflow Integration

IndexAgent works seamlessly with Preston Sparks’s [airflow-hub](https://github.com/mprestonsparks/airflow-hub) to schedule maintenance DAGs but can also run standalone or integrate with any Airflow 3.0 deployment.

### Automated Maintenance Scripts

- [scripts/agent_fix_todos.sh](scripts/agent_fix_todos.sh): Phase 2 – nightly TODO cleanup via the Claude Code CLI.  
- [scripts/run_cov.py](scripts/run_cov.py) & [scripts/ai_test_loop.sh](scripts/ai_test_loop.sh): Phase 3 – continuous test and coverage loops.  
- [scripts/documentation/find_undocumented.py](scripts/documentation/find_undocumented.py): Phase 4 – detect missing or short docstrings.  
- [scripts/documentation/agent_write_docs.sh](scripts/documentation/agent_write_docs.sh): Phase 4 – generate markdown documentation.  
- [scripts/documentation/update_docs_coverage.sh](scripts/documentation/update_docs_coverage.sh): Phase 4 – compute and expose the `docs_coverage` metric.

### Claude Code CLI Integration

- **Planned usage:** wrap `claude -m` calls for code maintenance tasks (TODO fixes, doc generation, coverage loops) in the project directory (`--dir $(pwd)`), offline and interactive.  
- **Current scripts:**  
  - `scripts/agent_fix_todos.sh`: invokes Claude CLI to apply TODO patches.  
  - `scripts/documentation/agent_write_docs.sh`: invokes Claude CLI to generate markdown docs.  
- **Future enhancements:**  
  - CI integration to automate CLI tasks within build pipelines.  
  - Enhanced error handling, metrics, and logging for monitoring.

### Example Full System Flow

1. `make up` starts Docker containers for Sourcebot, Zoekt, and the Claude Code CLI service.  
2. Scheduled Airflow DAGs in [airflow-hub](https://github.com/mprestonsparks/airflow-hub) call wrapper scripts via SSHOperator or HTTP.  
3. Wrapper scripts run maintenance tasks, apply patches, and push commits/PRs back to source repositories.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started)  
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)  
- [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) (optional)

### Setup & Usage

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/IndexAgent.git
   cd IndexAgent
   ```

2. **Mount your code:**
   ```sh
   mkdir -p $HOME/repos
   # Place or clone your application repositories under $HOME/repos
   ```

3. **Manage secrets:**
   - For production, use [Docker secrets](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/secrets/).  
   - For local development, use a `.env` file. See [`docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose.yml) for supported variables.

4. **Start the stack:**
   ```sh
   docker compose up -d
   ```
   Or:
   ```sh
   make up
   ```

5. **Stop the stack:**
   ```sh
   docker compose down
   ```
   Or:
   ```sh
   make down
   ```

6. **Access & advanced usage:**
   - Open [http://localhost:6070](http://localhost:6070) to explore the Zoekt web UI.  
   - For API access and advanced configuration, see the [`docs/`](./docs/) directory.

## Further Documentation

See the [`docs/`](./docs/) directory for architecture diagrams, ADRs, and advanced configuration options.

## License

IndexAgent is released by [Preston Sparks](https://github.com/mprestonsparks) under a **GNU GPL** license. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Add Docker-first approach to README and create Docker documentation

README.md, after:

# IndexAgent

**IndexAgent** is a Docker-first, Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) stack for self-hosted, large-scale code search and indexing. Designed for privacy, extensibility, and developer autonomy, IndexAgent empowers organizations and individuals to run their own code search infrastructure—**no vendor lock-in, no cloud dependencies**. IndexAgent can integrate with Apache Airflow for orchestrating maintenance workflows but does not include any DAG definitions within this repository.

---

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Further Documentation](#further-documentation)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction

IndexAgent uniquely integrates [Sourcebot](https://github.com/sourcebot-dev/sourcebot) for code discovery and syncing, [Zoekt](https://github.com/sourcegraph/zoekt) for high-performance indexing and search, and the [Claude Code CLI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@anthropic-ai/claude-cli) for automated maintenance tasks. Built with a Docker-first approach, all components run in containers for consistent deployment across environments. As a self-hosted FOSS platform, it provides a privacy-focused, extensible code infrastructure—empowering full autonomy without vendor lock-in.

Routine maintenance workflows (TODO cleanup, documentation generation, coverage loops) are orchestrated via [Apache Airflow 3.0](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/index.html) DAGs in the companion [airflow-hub](https://github.com/mprestonsparks/airflow-hub) repository. Sourcebot ensures code is current, Zoekt powers sub-100 ms search across mounted repositories, and the Claude Code CLI applies intelligent patches—together realizing an autonomous, scalable maintenance ecosystem.

### Airflow Integration

IndexAgent works seamlessly with Preston's [airflow-hub](https://github.com/mprestonsparks/airflow-hub) to schedule maintenance DAGs but can also run standalone or integrate with any Airflow 3.0 deployment.

### Automated Maintenance Scripts

- [scripts/agent_fix_todos.sh](scripts/agent_fix_todos.sh): Phase 2 – nightly TODO cleanup via the Claude Code CLI.  
- [scripts/run_cov.py](scripts/run_cov.py) & [scripts/ai_test_loop.sh](scripts/ai_test_loop.sh): Phase 3 – continuous test and coverage loops.  
- [scripts/documentation/find_undocumented.py](scripts/documentation/find_undocumented.py): Phase 4 – detect missing or short docstrings.  
- [scripts/documentation/agent_write_docs.sh](scripts/documentation/agent_write_docs.sh): Phase 4 – generate markdown documentation.  
- [scripts/documentation/update_docs_coverage.sh](scripts/documentation/update_docs_coverage.sh): Phase 4 – compute and expose the `docs_coverage` metric.

### Claude Code CLI Integration

- **Planned usage:** wrap `claude -m` calls for code maintenance tasks (TODO fixes, doc generation, coverage loops) in the project directory (`--dir $(pwd)`), offline and interactive.  
- **Current scripts:**  
  - `scripts/agent_fix_todos.sh`: invokes Claude CLI to apply TODO patches.  
  - `scripts/documentation/agent_write_docs.sh`: invokes Claude CLI to generate markdown docs.  
- **Future enhancements:**  
  - CI integration to automate CLI tasks within build pipelines.  
  - Enhanced error handling, metrics, and logging for monitoring.

### Example Full System Flow

1. `make up` starts Docker containers for Sourcebot, Zoekt, and the Claude Code CLI service.  
2. Scheduled Airflow DAGs in [airflow-hub](https://github.com/mprestonsparks/airflow-hub) call wrapper scripts via SSHOperator or HTTP.  
3. Wrapper scripts run maintenance tasks, apply patches, and push commits/PRs back to source repositories.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started)  
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)  
- [GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) (optional)

### Docker Architecture

IndexAgent follows a Docker-first approach with three primary containers:

1. **zoekt-indexserver**: Handles code indexing and search capabilities
2. **sourcebot**: Manages code discovery and repository syncing
3. **indexagent**: Runs maintenance scripts and Claude Code CLI operations

All containers mount the same code repositories from `$HOME/repos` on the host, ensuring consistent access across the stack. For detailed Docker implementation information, see our [Docker documentation](docs/docker.md).

### Setup & Usage

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/IndexAgent.git
   cd IndexAgent
   ```

2. **Mount your code:**
   ```sh
   mkdir -p $HOME/repos
   # Place or clone your application repositories under $HOME/repos
   ```

3. **Manage secrets:**
   - For production, use [Docker secrets](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/secrets/).  
   - For local development, use a `.env` file. See [`docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose.yml) for supported variables.

4. **Start the stack:**
   ```sh
   docker compose up -d
   ```
   Or:
   ```sh
   make up
   ```

5. **Stop the stack:**
   ```sh
   docker compose down
   ```
   Or:
   ```sh
   make down
   ```

6. **Access & advanced usage:**
   - Open [http://localhost:6070](http://localhost:6070) to explore the Zoekt web UI.  
   - For API access and advanced configuration, see the [`docs/`](./docs/) directory.

## Further Documentation

See the [`docs/`](./docs/) directory for architecture diagrams, ADRs, and advanced configuration options.

## License

IndexAgent is released by [Preston Sparks](https://github.com/mprestonsparks) under a **GNU GPL** license. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
